# [Path Planning Project - Highway Driving]
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program
Chris Haliburton

This project can also be found https://github.com/chaliburton/SelfDrivingND-Path-Planning-Project

In this project I was provided with initial code for reading in measurements from onboard vehicle sensors, a map with Frenet Coordinates.  The starter code precluded functionality of the main.cpp file for moving and navigating the vehicle.

[main.cpp]
This code was provided to setup the interface messaging with the simulator.  Functions and variables were added to achieve vehicle motion and navigation within a map populated with other vehicles.  The sensor data was used to navigate and control vehicle position within the lane as well as determine safe openings in traffic for lane changes.  A finite state machine was implemented to assist in preventing lane hunting by creating a HOLD state. 

# [For the Project Rubric:]
The code compiles without error.

[The car is able to drive at least 4.32 miles without incident.]
On numerous attempts the car has been able to navigate without incident.  There have been some cases where fast moving vehicles or quick lane changes from other vehicles are not detected and collision is not avoided.  This could be mitigated by adding vehicle speed target vectors to avoid collision.

[The car drives according to the speed limit]
Yes, the maximum reference velocity is set based on the update rate that the path data is provided to the simulator in order to set the top speed.  

[Max Acceleration and Jerk are not Exceeded]
Yes, by selecting long sweeping splines side to side jerk has been minimized and by setting maximum reference velocity step changes per discretized path data I avoid acceleration and jerk exceptions.  I have noticed some corners that involve a lane change trigger an exception and this could be mitigated by minimizing lane changes when the road curvature changes.

[Car does not have collisions]
With some eceptions the car can navigate extended periods of time without collisions.  This could be modified by increasing the space/gap required for a lane change as well as observing adjacent traffic velocities.

[The car stays in its lane, except for the time between changing lanes]
Yes, the car stays in the lane except when attempting lane changes.

[The car is able to change lanes]
Yes, the car is able to change lanes.


[There is a reflection on how to generate paths]
In addition to this writeup, the commented code is included in this project repository.
The paths are generated using the map's Frenet coordinates and locally transformed vehicle coordinates and a spline function from spline.h.  The spline path is generated by creating Frenent points that are projected outwards along the S-axis and within the lane's center or to an adjacent lane center.  The swept path becomes the path data through a transformation to the map coordinates.

[Create a path planner that performs optimized lane changing, this means that the car only changes into a lane that improves its forward progress]
I implemented an optimzer with a cost function that took the following into consideration:
1) each lanes clear distance to the next car in front - providing a preferred lane.
2) the vehicle's speed ratio (actual speed divided by speed limit) to determine the vehicle's ability to execute a lane change quickly (within traffic)
This cost function could be tuned to ensure lane changes are practical and safe.
